# 2.0 Administration Menu


The following functions are available in the CMS module administration interface. These functions are typically available only to the system administrator, but the CMS allows delegation of administrative function for the entire system or specific modules.

### **gwloto Center**

If everything is set up correctly, this will just display some information about gwloto. It will run several tests, checking for possible issues. If found, any issues will be displayed in an annotated To Do list form.

### **Top Level Places**

For gwloto to function, at least one top level place must be created. A top level place is a place without a parent place. As the authority to create a place comes from the parent place, this becomes an system (or module) administrator function.

When creating a top level place you must choose an "admin" user for the place. This admin user will be granted the "Edit Authorities" authority for the new place. This admin user does not have to have module administration rights. The designated admin user can then assign additional authorities related to the new top level place any defined system users.

Underneath the entry panel is a list of defined top level places. Beside each place description is an option to "Add Admin." This button will allow the system administrator to assign "Edit Authorities" for a place to a user. This can be especially useful in the case that original administrator account has been deactivated, or if the assigned administrator has inadvertently removed the permission from his or her account.

### **Languages**

Installation of gwloto will define a default language. If you will not be using the multilingual features, no additional attention needs to be given to the languages section.

#### _**Multilingual Considerations**_

Gwloto's language features supplement the base CMS language features. For complete multilingual support, you will need to install the appropriate language pack(s) for your CMS. The CMS language support is built on language folders. With the main CMS directory, there is a "language" folder. Inside that is an "english" folder which contains files defining all the phrases used in the base CMS in the English language. If you want to add, for example, español, you will be adding an additional folder, "spanish" which will include the phrases in that language. In addition to the base CMS, each installed module also has a "language" directory following the same structure.

The CMS allows definition of a system wide language, as well as a per user language. ImpressCMS also has built in multilingual support features, allowing switching language on the fly with a single click. Similar support is available for XOOPS with a third party system patch.

To define additional languages within gwloto, you will need to complete the system generated default language entry in the module administration area, and add the additional language(s). A language definition in this context includes the following:

* Language ID - system generated, the default language is always '0'

* Language Caption - display name for the language

* ISO 639-1 Code - two letter code used for translation and mapping to CMS features

* Folder - the CMS language folder name for this language.




If gwloto does not include support for your chosen language, you may need to supply translation files.

In addition to the normal module files, gwloto also has a language folder within its own "plugins" directory. These language files follow the same folder conventions and are similar in concept to the normal language files, but are implemented slightly differently to allow multiple languages to be used simultaneously when generating tags and reports.

Within gwloto, the creation of new places, control plans, control points and media items always occurs in the default language, then translations can be added. If, when called up for display, a given entity does not have a translation for the requested language, the default language version will be returned.

### **Plugins**

Job related output, such as tags or log sheets are generated by plugins. A plugin is a small PHP program which generates the actual output from data supplied by gwloto. Plugins files are located in the ```modules/gwloto/plugins``` folder, and are identified by special signature block which supplies information to the system.

Plugins allow you to adapt gwloto output to your specific requirements, such as alternative output methods, conforming to specific tag stock, inclusion of specific wordings, positioning of specific fields, etc.

#### _**Install and Remove Plugins**_

This page displays all available plugins and the current status of each. A plugin must be installed to be usable within the system. You can install, remove or edit a plugin by clicking the appropriate button in the Action column.

#### _**Edit Plugin**_

When installed, a plugin creates an entry in the default language based on the information contained in the plugin signature in the PHP file. You can edit this information and add language translations if needed by using the Edit Plugin function.

#### _**Reorder Plugins**_

By default, plugins are shown for selection in the print functions in same the order in which they were installed. To change the display order, use the Reorder Plugins function.

NOTE: This reordering does not affect the display in the Plugins section of the module administration area.

### **Preferences**

The following options are set in the "Preferences" section in the CMS module administration interface.

#### _**Max Tag Copies**_

The number given here is used as the maximum number for the entry of "Tag Copies" and "Locks Required" on control points. The related entry forms feature a drop down list of values ranging from 0 \(zero\) to the number specified here.

#### _**Date Format**_

This sets the format used to display the last modified dates for gwloto entities. This string is used as an argument for the CMS function formatTimeStamp. This formating uses standard PHP data and time formats. Documentation of these formats can be found here:

http://www.php.net/manual/en/datetime.formats.php

#### _**Use Reconnect**_

This option can turn off reconnect instructions and sequences system wide. These relate to the re-energizing of equipment, and this is typically considered a controlled procedure, just like the de-energizing.

#### _**Use Inspect**_

This option can turn off inspection instructions and sequences system wide. Conceptually, these relate to the "Try" phase of a "Lock, Tag and Try" policy.

#### _**Fields Required on Job Entries**_

By default, all fields on the New Job, Edit Job and Add Step forms require that an entry be made before the form is processed. This list indicates which fields are required to be entered. You can turn of the data entry requirement for specific fields, by removing it from this comma separated list. Possible values are: 'workorder', 'supervisor', 'startdate', 'enddate', 'description' and 'stepname'.

TIP: Nothing bad happens if a value in this list isn't a valid field name; it will just be quietly ignored. You can use this to simplify turning options on and off, for example, by adding an 'x' to the front of a field name instead of completely removing it.

#### _**Fields Required on Control Plan Entries**_

By default, all fields on the Control Plan and Control Points entry forms require that an entry be made before the form is processed. This list indicates which fields are required to be entered. You can turn of the data entry requirement for specific fields, by removing it from this comma separated list. Possible values are: ```'review'```, ```'hazard_inventory'```, ```'required_ppe'```, ```'authorized_personnel'```, ```'additional_requirements'```, ```'disconnect_instructions'```, ```'reconnect_instructions'```, ```'inspection_instructions'``` and ```'inspection_state'```

The TIP given in "Fields Required on Job Entries" above applies here, too.

#### _**Media File Upload Path**_

This is the directory where media files are placed when uploaded to the server. It must be writable by the web server. It can be located outside of the web root if desired for security considerations.

#### _**Max Media File Size**_

This sets the maximum file size in bytes that will be allowed in media uploads. The maximum size is also affected by the PHP configuration.

#### _**Enable Google Translation**_

This option only applies if you will be using more than one language. If enabled, users with translate authorities will see an extra "Translate" button when editing places, control plans, control points and media entries. Clicking this button will pass the data currently shown on the form to google.com to be translated into the selected language, using the Google AJAX Language API for Translation. By default this option is off. If you determine that this option will be of benefit to your translators, and you can determine that such use is allowable within your organization (for example, after considering the potential for exposure of sensitive or proprietary information,) you can enable this option here.

For terms and additional information related to the Google AJAX Language API for Translation, see: http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlanguage\/

#### _**Path to TCPDF**_

If TCPDF is installed, but not in a location that is auto-detected, please specify the full path (i.e. /full/path/to/tcpdf.php) here.

